In 2016 joined Natwest's Track Mortgage Examination remediation programme, this was a €0.25bn remediation program to address historic misapplication of mortgage interest rates in the Irish market. After the major consulting houses refused to engage with the bank due to the complexity we were asked to build a remediation engine that would calculate by mortgage by day the correct position for the customer and the over charging incurred. This involved understanding the bank process and systems (mainly undocumented) by working through historic examples and engaging the SMEs to explain what had occurred and why. This work was then cross checked and assured by KPMG before the money was paid to the customers.
The original team was in excess of 25 people and the work stream was red. After taking ownership and identifying the key areas of focus we reduced the team to five and delivered in six months two solutions. One for bulk processing of simpler calculations and another for manually assisted more complex ones. This second system removed all the manual work from the user and allowed them to focus on the core complex issue(s). This calculation was then modified to solve over eight other programmes saving millions in build costs and is still used to this day as part of general complaints. As well as saving the bank millions in additional build costs it allowed solutions to be done far more quickly - over the years 100,000s of accounts have been addressed using our calculators.


Duncan also worked on that project
